welcome to the man of recaps this is the
handmaid's tale season four
at the end of season three june managed
to smuggle 86 children out of gilead to
the safety of canada but now this group
of about a dozen handmaids are extremely
wanted on their run but they make it to
the safe house
it's a country estate in the middle of
nowhere so not many visitors commander
keys has gone senile he has no idea
what's happening so it's his young wife
mrs keys who's happy to host some
resistance heroes and when i say young i
mean way way too young she's literally
14 and you might think a commander's
wife has had it better than the
handmaids but she has not she's also
been raped by her husband and all the
guards in the area
in fact they capture one of them so june
strings them up and it's like alright
girl
you could kill him it's like yeah girl
get that revenge but also june should
you have let the 14 year old do it
it's complicated i guess pretty soon
june sneaks over to a nearby estate to
meet with their mayday contact remember
mayday is the name of like the official
resistance the fugitive handmaids can't
stay in any one place for too long so
she's got another safe house lined up
for him but in the meantime this house
is a giant party brothel for
high-ranking military commanders
june's like yo wow we got him all here
we should kill him mrs keys being a
country girl knows which berries are
poisonous and in fact she's been brewing
poison tea for her commander that's what
made him loopy june's like hey kid brew
me up a strong batch puts it in the
liquor at the party house yeah
drink up commanders yeah june just
winning all over the place
until back at the house oh what no the
eyes found him
and leading this mission the new
commander of the eyes it is
nick it's like hey june sorry i'm gonna
do what i can to protect you but
i can't stop this so june's brought to
the serious prison where she's reunited
with aunt lydia who's very mad at her
the other handmaid's moved on before
they got there so they're going to
torture june to find out where they are
and the head torcher here is this
mild-mannered guy who's awkwardly
friendly while he's waterboarding her
and stuff
eventually he takes her up to the roof
where they've got a couple of june's
friends but she still won't talk so
oh he pushes him off finally though they
bring out the big guns yes it's june's
daughter hannah
but she was very young when she was
taken away and it's been like five years
she barely remembers her mom she's
scared of this creepy lady this is
heartbreaking for june it basically
destroys her but still to protect her
daughter she gives up the other
handmaids so now even after everything
she's done they still don't kill june
fertile women are just too valuable so
she's back in red
it's handmade time again before she
leaves though nick managed to arrange a
rendezvous for them and she runs up and
these two start smooching
i mean as a top commander he was
complicit in her torture but like also
he still cares about her and wants to
protect her and jun knows from their
past relationship that he is a good guy
he's just doing what he has to survive
in gilead just like the rest of them so
i don't know it's complicated so now
these troublemaker handmaids aren't
being sent to private homes they're
being sent off to a breeding colony
gross but
they get stuck at a train crossing and
the guard's like hey i'm gonna go out
and take a leak and it's an incredible
tense scene as without talking all these
women realize that the only person
guarding them right now is aunt lydia
so oh june grabs her they're making a
break for it if they get across the
tracks in time they'll have a huge head
start got a pretty good shot at freedom
come on run for it oh no too late hit by
a train
out of all those minor character
handmaids we've gotten to know and love
over the course of the series it's only
june and janine who survive
these two decide their best bet is to
hop a train headed for chicago remember
that's the front where the resistance
is still fighting and luckily this train
is ambushed by the resistance so june
and janine off to the war zone of
chicago
unfortunately though this cell that
found him is no organized militant
resistance they're basically just trying
to survive
in fact the leader here stephen tries to
solicit sexual favors from them in
exchange for food
and shelter june's like absolutely the
hell not
janine though says yes she's like i
don't mind he's actually kind of hot i
mean ah
but it's complicated i guess in fact
these two start kinda dating and janine
is happy here but june wants to move on
and find a real resistance who's ready
to fight back
so it looks like these two are gonna say
goodbye but they've been through so much
together in the end janine's like hey
i'm coming with
we gotta stick together now back in
gilead commander lawrence is in big
trouble because it was his handmade june
who helped all those kids escape so at
first they're gonna execute him but he's
still the smartest guy they've got in
terms of macroeconomics and
international relations so they decide
to keep him alive as a consultant he's
like look to improve diplomatic
relations we need a ceasefire on the
chicago border to allow humanitarian aid
in but the other commanders don't want
to listen to him meanwhile aunt lydia
after letting those handmaids escape
she's being pushed out
forcibly retired so she goes to see
commander lawrence and demands to be
reinstated she's like hey i've got all
sorts of blackmail on you about stuff
you've done that's not legal in gilead
but commander lawrence is like hey i
have no power here anyway but do you
have blackmail on the other commanders
indeed she does so these two use that to
get aunt lydia reinstated and commander
lawrence officially back in power
unfortunately though right before the
ceasefire they've decided to do one
final bombing run
oh no june run girls june is
shell-shocked but alive and luckily the
humanitarian aid's coming in right now
and in fact the first one here who finds
june is her old best friend moira
moyra's boss and girlfriend is like hey
we can't take june out of here that is
very much against the rules but moira
says screw the rules i'm bringing my
best friend june back with me and so
it's finally happening after three and a
half seasons of torture in gilead
june has finally made it to canada she
joins up with the canada crew all her
friends she helped escape gilead
including her baby nicole and she's
reunited with her husband luke who is
overjoyed that she's finally free
and sojun enjoys living in a free
society again but being in gilead all
these years has left its mark she went
through so much trauma it's gonna take
time to adjust she has a hard time being
intimate with her husband lou in fact
she wakes him up in the middle of the
night and basically forces sex on him
uh it's complicated i guess at the
gilead support group for women who made
it out morris of the thought that hey we
gotta move past our drama but june's
kind of like why should we move past it
we should get angry
and all the other girls are kinda with
her and by the way janine
also survived the bombing and there's
another new handmade here it is the
young mrs keys
esther but she's not having any of this
she's on a hunger strike janine knows
firsthand that this kind of behavior
will not end well so she pays a visit to
her like hey
you gotta eat lester's like no way i'm
not giving in things can't get any worse
but janine's like yo girl look at my eye
things can get much worse and so for now
esther's on her best behavior blessed be
the fruit and all that now remember also
in canada are the waterfords fred and
serena she made a deal with canada to
turn him over in exchange for visiting
rights with her daughter nicole but then
he turned on her
told him about how she forced june and
nick to have sex so she's facing charges
too now and these two hate
each other but soon serena gets some
very surprising news she is pregnant
yeah remember last season these two had
an actual tender moment where they got
it on but how is this possible serena
was thought to be infertile and fred was
also thought to be infertile it's a
miracle i guess
serena still rightfully hates fred but
now they've got a bigger problem because
june osborne is here to testify against
them
so june tells her story to the world
basically doing a full seasons 1-3 recap
so serena decides they need to present a
united front now jin and luke's next
mission is to get their daughter hannah
out of gilead so june calls up commander
lawrence like hey man we were sort of
friends by the end i know you're kind of
a good person just give me my daughter
back but he's like sorry june that's
just too big an ask i can't help you but
there's someone else in gilead who likes
her even more
it's nick and he's happy to help gives
her all the info he has on hannah i'm
just sorry i can't do more and once
again these two start passionately
making out
i mean yeah luke has been so sweet and
supportive and june still loves him but
nick was her gilead boyfriend they went
through some heart drama together
it's complicated i guess made even more
complicated because apparently nick is
married now so watch out for that
meanwhile commander waterford's allowed
to visit her from gilead and it's like
hey so what are you doing to get me out
and they're like oh
nothing we're basically leaving you out
to dry and so friend and serena realized
that staying loyal to gilead may not be
their best option
so they make a deal fred tells the
international community everything they
could possibly want to know about the
inner workings of gilead
in exchange for immunity yes commander
waterford is gonna walk free and as you
might imagine june is not happy june
goes to the american fbi agent tuala
like hey i've got a better offer for you
she set up a meeting with commander
lawrence and now that fred's talking
they really want him back before he can
spill more gilead secrets they're
willing to trade for him 22 prisoners
women that were in the resistance and
tuella's got to admit saving all of them
is worth more than fred's intel and so
just as commander waterford thinks he's
free it's like sorry man change of plans
they take him back to gilead where he's
certainly gonna be put to death
in fact it's nick who comes for him it's
like oh come on son you're making a
mistake but
nick's like don't call me son nick
brings him out into the woods but he's
not killing him
cause june osborne is here in person and
she's not alone she brought all the
women of the support group with her and
she's like
you better run and yes commander
waterford running for his life getting
to experience just a taste of what these
women have been through pretty soon they
catch him and finally
june has him in her power they beat him
to death and though it's extremely
violent there's nothing complicated
about this one
he got what he deserved it probably will
be complicated for serena though we'll
see how she reacts
actually jin sends her a package with
fred's finger oh
so after violently beating a man to
death june goes on home and doesn't
bother taking a shower for luke this
might be too much she was all good with
him getting sent to gilead and executed
but june doing it herself in such a
brutal way
i mean that's a lot and june recognizes
this in fact she says i'm gonna go
and that's where the handmaid's tale
season 4 comes to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you'd
love this recap check out the join
button and support the channel as a
member